Our project is an IOS app created in XCode using Swift called Crimson Assassins. We’ve created a game that is a digital riff on the popular game, Assassin. The goal of the game is to get as many of the other players eliminated as possible and be the last man standing. 

To run our project, open the HAssasins folder and run HAssassins.xcworkspace in XCode. This will open the app on the Simulator and allow you to access our game. The XCode workspace should include all necessary pictures and attachments. However, on some devices, the Crimson Assassins logo has not been loading, causing the app to crash. If that is the case for you and the photo is not loading properly, you can drag “Picture1.png” out of the HAssassins folder and onto your Desktop as well as into the HAssassins.xcworkspace. This should alleviate the issue and allow everything to run smoothly. Furthermore, our program uses Firebase which required that we download several pods. In addition, it is possible that the app might not run because it says that the GoogleService - Info.plist does not exist. This file is also in the folder we submitted, so if needed you can drag that file onto your desktop and into the XCode window.

To join the fun, you must create an account by inputting your name, username, password, and a picture. If you’ve forgotten to input any of this data, or your “Password” and “Confirm Password” entries don’t match, an alert will pop up notifying you as such. Once you’ve logged in, you’ll be able to access four tabs: “Profile,” Alive,” ''Leaderboard,” and “Games.”

In the “Profile” tab, you’ll be able to see your account with your name, profile picture, number of kills, which game you are currently playing in, and the status of whether you are alive or dead in the game. Additionally, you can access a “How to Play” view that explains the instructions of the game.

The “Alive” tab allows users to see the name and profile picture of all the players that are in the game. If you are within 100 meters of that player, swipe to the left to “kill” the other player and remove them from the game. An alert will appear on the other player’s device letting them know that they’ve been eliminated. If you swipe left on a player but are not within 100 meters, a notification will appear and inform you as such. When you “kill” another player, you will receive all of their kill points.

The “Leaderboard” tab lists the ranking of all the players based on the number of kills. All players are listed, with dead players in red font, alive players in black font, and your name in bold font. You can click on any of these players to see their name, profile picture, number of kills, and number of the leaderboard. If two or more players are tied, they will be listed having the same number.

The final tab, “Games,” allows users to switch to a different game or create a new game. If they try to switch into a new game, they will be asked to enter the entrance code for that particular game. When a user creates a new game, they will immediately join that game. Having this functionality allows multiple different groups across campus to all be playing separate games as well as having a general Harvard game. If the entrance code entered is incorrect, the user will be notified as such. In addition, we made it so that the game that the user is currently playing in is listed in bold in the tableview. Furthermore, a user can create a new game and create the entrance code. This means if they send that entrance code to some of their friends, their friends can then join that new game.

The game ends when there is only one player remaining. Good luck!
